Custom config provider (#23839)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/extensions/custom-configuration-provider.md

The provider has the following characteristics:

- The EF in-memory database is used for demonstration purposes.

>   - To use a database that requires a connection string, you'd rely on a connection string from an interim configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To use a database that requires a connection string, get a connection string from an interim configuration.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/custom-provider/Providers/EntityConfigurationContext.cs":::

> By overriding <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext.OnConfiguring(Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContextOptionsBuilder)> you can deterministically use the appropriate database connection. For example, if a connection string was provided you could connect to SQL Server, otherwise you could rely on an in-memory database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By overriding <xref:Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContext.OnConfiguring(Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.DbContextOptionsBuilder)> you can use the appropriate database connection. For example, if a connection string was provided you could connect to SQL Server, otherwise you could rely on an in-memory database.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/custom-provider/Extensions/ConfigurationBuilderExtensions.cs":::

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > The use of a temporary configuration to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has it's configuration constructed temporary by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The use of a temporary configuration to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has it's configuration constructed temporary by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.
```
```suggestion
> The use of a temporary configuration source to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has its configuration constructed temporarily by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.
```

> > The use of a temporary configuration to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has it's configuration constructed temporary by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The use of a temporary configuration to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has its configuration constructed temporarily by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.
```

The following code shows how to use the custom `EntityConfigurationProvider` in *Program.cs*:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/custom-provider/Program.cs" highlight="33":::

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > The use of a temporary configuration to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has it's configuration constructed temporary by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The use of a temporary configuration to acquire the connection string is important. The current `builder` has its configuration constructed temporarily by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfigurationBuilder.Build?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.ConfigurationExtensions.GetConnectionString%2A>. After obtaining the connection string, the `builder` adds the `EntityConfigurationSource` given the `connectionString`.
```

## Consume provider

To consume the custom configuration provider, you can use the [options pattern](options.md). With the sample app in place, define an options object to represent the widget settings.

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/custom-provider/WidgetOptions.cs":::

> With a call to <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.IHostBuilder.ConfigureServices%2A>, you'll configure the mapping of the options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A call to <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting.IHostBuilder.ConfigureServices%2A> configures the mapping of the options.
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/configuration/custom-provider/Program.cs" highlight="16-19,35-37":::

> The preceding code, configures the `WidgetOptions` object from the `"WidgetOptions"` section of the configuration. This enables the options pattern, exposing a dependency injection-ready `IOptions<WidgetOptions>` representation of the EF settings. The options are ultimately provided from the custom configuration provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding code configures the `WidgetOptions` object from the `"WidgetOptions"` section of the configuration. This enables the options pattern, exposing a dependency injection-ready `IOptions<WidgetOptions>` representation of the EF settings. The options are ultimately provided from the custom configuration provider.
```
